---
layout: page
title: "Reclaiming Your Life- A Journey to Mindfulness and Kindness"
date: 2024-01-24 00:41:16
---

[Back](./)


The document describes a mindfulness meditation practice called "Exploring Difficulty." The practice involves bringing attention to the body, specifically any physical sensations that arise when difficult thoughts or emotions are present. The intention is to explore these sensations with curiosity and compassion, rather than trying to change or ignore them.

The document provides step-by-step instructions for the practice. It suggests starting by sitting quietly and focusing on the sensations of breathing. Then, attention can be broadened to include the whole body. If the mind is continually pulled away to painful thoughts or emotions, the practice offers a new possibility. Instead of bringing the mind back to the breath or body, one can allow the thoughts or feelings to remain and shift attention to any physical sensations that accompany them.

The practice encourages identifying any region of the body where there is tension, contraction, aches, or pain. Once these sensations are identified, attention can be deliberately moved to the part of the body where they are strongest. The practitioner can imagine breathing into that region on the in-breath and breathing out from it on the out-breath. The purpose is not to change the sensations, but to explore them and see them clearly.

If there are no difficulties or concerns present, the practice suggests deliberately bringing to mind a difficulty or unpleasant situation from the past. Attention can be shifted to any physical sensations that arise, and the process of exploring and breathing with these sensations is the same.

The document includes several personal accounts of individuals who have practiced this meditation. They describe how it allows them to become more aware of the physical sensations associated with difficult thoughts and emotions. By staying with these sensations and holding them in a compassionate awareness, they find a greater sense of acceptance and release. The practice helps to break the cycle of negativity and aversion that can perpetuate difficult emotions.

The document also includes instructions for incorporating the practice into daily life. It suggests using the breathing space meditation as a first response when feeling troubled in the body or mind. After completing the breathing space, the practitioner can seamlessly transition into exploring any physical sensations that arise. This refinement of the practice allows for a greater degree of compassion and can act as a bridge between formal meditation sessions and daily life.

In addition to the exploring difficulty meditation, the document suggests other mindfulness practices, such as describing and acknowledging thoughts and identifying their accuracy, as well as nurturing plants or sowing seeds as a way to cultivate mindfulness and well-being.

Overall, the document provides a detailed explanation of the exploring difficulty meditation and its purpose. It offers step-by-step instructions, personal anecdotes, and suggestions for incorporating the practice into daily life. The practice aims to cultivate awareness, acceptance, and compassion towards difficult thoughts, emotions, and physical sensations.

Words: 475